README.md, before:

**vrms-rpm**
----------
A clone of *vrms* ("*virtual Richard M. Stallman*") for
RPM-based GNU/Linux distributions.

This program analyses the list of currently installed RPM packages and reports
found non-free packages to stdout. 


**Why a clone instead of a fork?**
----------
Because my only experience with Perl (which the original *vrms* is written in)
has been one semester of Operating Systems class, and that was a long time ago.

Also, seeing how much the resulting program differs from the original, it's
quite possible that making a fork instead of starting fresh would only
complicate matters. After all, removing code is hard.


**Dependencies**
----------
- bash, obviously

- grep, for all that nifty pattern matching

- gettext, for handling multiple languages


**Building**
----------
Right now You're probably wondering why the hell do you need to build a 
bash script. Well, the script itself doesn't need any processing;
however, the locale files it uses, do.

To build, simply use `build.sh` with the `build` argument.
```
$ ./build.sh build
```


**Installing**
----------
To install, simply use `build.sh` with the `install` argument.
```
$ sudo ./build.sh install
```
Should you want to install to a chroot (for example, while packaging),
you can use the `--prefix ARG` option to specify a prefix to go before `/usr`.


Fedora users can use the *copr* repository 
[suve/vrms-rpm](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/suve/vrms-rpm/).
```
$ dnf copr enable suve/vrms-rpm
$ dnf install vrms-rpm
```

**Getting rid of it**
----------
Should you decide to uninstall the program `build.sh` has got you covered.
```
$ sudo ./build.sh remove
```
The `--prefix` option can be used here, too.


**Licensing**
----------
This program is made available under the terms of the GNU
General Public License, version 3, as published by the
Free Software Foundation.


**Contributing**
----------
 1. Make a new branch for your changes.
 
 2. When modifying program options, remember to update the --help section
    and the manpage.
 
 3. Use British spelling, when appropriate.
 
 4. By contributing, you agree for your work to be included under
    the terms of the program licence.

Commit message:

Add support for installing in /usr/local instead of /usr

README.md, after:

**vrms-rpm**
----------
A clone of *vrms* ("*virtual Richard M. Stallman*") for
RPM-based GNU/Linux distributions.

This program analyses the list of currently installed RPM packages and reports
found non-free packages to stdout. 


**Why a clone instead of a fork?**
----------
Because my only experience with Perl (which the original *vrms* is written in)
has been one semester of Operating Systems class, and that was a long time ago.

Also, seeing how much the resulting program differs from the original, it's
quite possible that making a fork instead of starting fresh would only
complicate matters. After all, removing code is hard.


**Dependencies**
----------
- bash, obviously

- grep, for all that nifty pattern matching

- gettext, for handling multiple languages


**Building**
----------
Right now You're probably wondering why the hell do you need to build a 
bash script. Well, basically we need to process the gettext translation
files and set up data paths (e.g. `/usr/local` vs `/usr`).

To build, simply use `build.sh` with the `build` argument. 
If you intend to perform a local install later on, 
use the `--local` option.
```
$ ./build.sh build
```


**Installing**
----------
To install, simply use `build.sh` with the `install` argument.
```
$ sudo ./build.sh install
```
Should you want to install to a chroot (for example, while packaging),
you can use the `--prefix ARG` option to specify a prefix to go before `/usr`.


Fedora users can use the *copr* repository 
[suve/vrms-rpm](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/suve/vrms-rpm/).
```
$ dnf copr enable suve/vrms-rpm
$ dnf install vrms-rpm
```

**Getting rid of it**
----------
Should you decide to uninstall the program `build.sh` has got you covered.
```
$ sudo ./build.sh remove
```
The `--local` and `--prefix` options can be used here, too.


**Licensing**
----------
This program is made available under the terms of the GNU
General Public License, version 3, as published by the
Free Software Foundation.


**Contributing**
----------
 1. Make a new branch for your changes.
 
 2. When modifying program options, remember to update the --help section
    and the manpage.
 
 3. Use British spelling, when appropriate.
 
 4. By contributing, you agree for your work to be included under
    the terms of the program licence.
