.TH VRMS-RPM 1
.SH NAME
vrms-rpm - report of installed nonfree software
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvrms-rpm\fR \fI[OPTION]\fR ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is a clone of the original
\fBvrms\fR ("\fBvirtual Richard M. Stallman\fR")
program for Debian GNU/Linux, created with the purpose of bringing its 
brilliant idea over to RPM-based GNU/Linux distributions.
.PP
This program analyses the list of currently installed RPM packages and reports
found nonfree packages to stdout. The decision on whether to classify a package
as free or nonfree is based on the Fedora Project licencing guidelines.
.PP
Fedora / CentOS users using additional repositories, such as \fBRPM Fusion\fR, 
may notice that not all packages coming from non-official repos are marked as 
nonfree. This is because the distinction, as noted before, is made depending 
on the package license. There are various reasons, apart from licensing, why 
a package may not have been accepted into the official 
Fedora / CentOS repository – such as software patents or export restrictions.
.PP
Richard Stallman for has been, for years, the most prominent and vocal figure 
in the Free Software movement, relentlessly reminding us on issues of 
software ethics. Like Richard, we believe that users should have an easy way to
know whether they’re running nonfree software on their systems. 
This program is an attempt to fulfil that need.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-ascii\fR
Display rms ASCII-art when no nonfree packages are found, 
or when nonfree packages are 10% or more of the total.
.TP
\fB\-\-explain\fR
When listing packages, display licences as to justify
the free / nonfree classification.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Display a short help on program usage and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\fR <\fInone\fR, \fIfree\fR, \fInonfree\fR, \fIall\fR>
Apart from displaying the total number of free and nonfree packages, 
also list packages by name. The default value for this option is \fInonfree\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fBhttps://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Licensing:Main#Good_Licenses\fR
The Fedora Project wiki page on accepted software licences.
.TP
\fBhttps://vrms.alioth.debian.org/\fR
Home of the original \fBvrms\fR program.
.SH LICENCE
This program itself it available under the terms of the GNU General Public
License, version 3, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.SH AUTHOR
Written in early 2017 by Artur "\fBsuve\fR" Iwicki.
